SQL Joins Intro Changes (#2629)
enkidevs/curriculum: sql/dql/intro-joins/relative-database-intro.md

---
author: meridian

type: normal

category: must-know

tags:
  - introduction
  - joins
practiceQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
revisionQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
---

# Relational Databases

---

## Content

You are now familiar with querying individual tables.

Real databases are often comprised of more than one table. 

Relational databases consist of tables and entries that connected to one another in some way. We call this connection a *relationship*.

> Consider the `pokedex` database, it contains two tables: the `pokemon_health` and `pokemon_attack` tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the `pokedex` database, it contains two tables: `pokemon_health` and `pokemon_attack`.
```

I think since we've already mentioned there are two tables, there is no need to say it again at the end of the sentence

| id | name       | health |
|----|------------|--------|
| 1  | Venusaur   | 42     |
| 2  | Charmander | 35     |

| id | type   | base-attack |
|----|--------|-------------|
| 1  | poison | 21          |
| 2  | fire   | 15          |

> Inspecting these two tables, it is easy to see that the `id` column is shared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inspecting them, we can easily see that the `id` column is shared.
```

So we do not repeat "two tables" every few sentences

---
author: meridian

type: normal

category: must-know

tags:
  - introduction
  - joins
practiceQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
revisionQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap

>     - type-in-the-gap

Reviewer 2: let's remove type-in-the-gap from this question just to be safe
```suggestion
```

---

# Relational Databases

---

## Content

You are now familiar with querying individual tables.

Real databases are often comprised of more than one table.

Relational databases consist of tables and entries that connected to one another in some way. We call this connection a *relationship*.

Consider the `pokedex` database, it contains two tables:

`pokemon_health`
| id | name       | health |
|----|------------|--------|
| 1  | Venusaur   | 42     |
| 2  | Charmander | 35     |

`pokemon_attack`
| id | type   | base-attack |
|----|--------|-------------|
| 1  | poison | 21          |

> | 2  | fire   | 15          |

Reviewer: Tables are displayed wrong / aren't rendered as tables at all within the app. Maybe adding a space after `pokemon health` and `pokemon_attack` will fix this

Reviewer 2: yes :ok_hand:

Inspecting them, we can easily see that the `id` column is shared.

More importantly, these two tables **map**, or are related, to one another.

So the `attack` and type data for Venusaur (`id` = 1) is contained in the `pokemon_attack` table, while data for the `name` and the `health` is contained in the `pokemon_health` table[1].

![Health and Attack Tables Graphic](https://img.enkipro.com/2d381a48dbcfcb92827e8fca3b95c450.png)

The **relation** between these two tables is the `id` column and can be used to join them.

> > 💡 Note that these two tables do **not** represent best-practices for database design, the reasons for this are covered in the [**Defining Data**](https://app.enkipro.com/course/ddl) topic.

Reviewer 2: let's use app.enki.com because app.enkipro.com is the legacy url
```suggestion
> 💡 Note that these two tables do **not** represent best-practices for database design, the reasons for this are covered in the [**Defining Data**](https://app.enki.com/course/ddl) course.
```

> > 💡 Note that these two tables do **not** represent best-practices for database design, the reasons for this are covered in the [**Defining Data**](https://app.enkipro.com/course/ddl) topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 💡 Note that these two tables do **not** represent best-practices for database design, the reasons for this are covered in the [**Defining Data**](https://app.enkipro.com/course/ddl) course.
```

---

## Practice

Relational databases usually contain ??? of ???.

- multiple tables
- related data
- spreadsheets
- unrelated data

---

## Revision

> Consider the following two tables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the following tables.
```

> the `country_count` table:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `country_count` table:

```

| id_no | code | total_count | dates               |
|-------|------|-------------|---------------------|
| 1     | GBR  | 706         | 2020-03-14 13:55:22 |
| 2     | ZAF  | 696         | 2020-06-24 00:46:56 |
| 3     | JEY  | 463         | 2020-04-20 19:43:19 |
| 4     | ECU  | 385         | 2020-02-16 03:50:44 |
| 5     | ISR  | 466         | 2020-07-31 07:16:56 |

> and the `country_alt` table:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And the `country_alt` table:

```
